Memphis is a city along the Mississippi River in southwestern Shelby County, Tennessee, United States. 
Its 2020 population was 633,104, making it Tennessee's second-most populous city behind Nashville, 
the nation's 28th-largest, and the largest city proper situated along the Mississippi River. 
Greater Memphis is the 42nd-largest metropolitan area in the United States, with a population of 1,348,260 in 2017.
The city is the anchor of West Tennessee and the greater Mid-South region, which includes portions of 
neighboring Arkansas, Mississippi, and the Missouri Bootheel. Memphis is the seat of Shelby County, 
Tennessee's most populous county. One of the more historic and culturally significant cities of the 
southern United States, Memphis has a wide variety of landscapes and distinct neighborhoods.

Memphis grew into one of the largest cities of the Antebellum South as a market for agricultural goods, 
natural resources like lumber, and the American slave trade. After the American Civil War and the end 
of slavery, the city experienced even faster growth into the 20th century as it became among the largest 
world markets for cotton and lumber.

Many musicians, including Aretha Franklin, Jerry Lee Lewis, Johnny Cash, Elvis Presley, Carl Perkins, 
Roy Orbison, Booker T. & the M.G.'s, Otis Redding, Isaac Hayes, Shawn Lane, Al Green, Rance Allen, 
Percy Sledge, Solomon Burke, William Bell, Sam & Dave and B.B. King, got their start in Memphis in 
the 1950s and 1960s.

Beale Street is a national historical landmark, and shows the impact Memphis has had on American blues.

Stax Records created a classic 1960s soul music sound, much grittier and horn-based than the better-known 
Motown from Detroit. Booker T. and the M.G.s were the label's backing band for most of the classic hits 
that came from Stax, by Sam & Dave, Otis Redding, Wilson Pickett, and many more. The sound was revisited 
in the 1980s in the Blues Brothers movie, in which many of the musicians starred as themselves.

Memphis is also noted for its influence on the power pop musical genre in the 1970s. Notable bands and 
musicians include Big Star, Chris Bell, Alex Chilton, Tommy Hoehn, The Scruffs, and Prix.

Several notable singers are from the Memphis area, including Justin Timberlake, K. Michelle, Kirk Whalum, 
Three 6 Mafia, Ruth Welting, Kid Memphis, Kallen Esperian, and Andrew VanWyngarden. The Metropolitan Opera 
of New York had its first tour in Memphis in 1906; in the 1990s it decided to tour only larger cities. 
Metropolitan Opera performances are now broadcast in HD at local movie theaters across the country.$